---
templateKey: blog-post
title: Session 10b
date: 2021-11-19T03:08:48.888Z
description: Private sessions are meant to explore opportunities for players to
  make choices and develop their characters. It always provides a way to
  intertwine backstories with the main plot.
featuredpost: true
featuredimage: /img/amelrelle_token.png
tags:
  - DM
---
<!--StartFragment-->

As the players left, I also tend to stay on for a few minutes (sometimes more than an hour or two) to chat and clarify points. After this session, Amaranth and Amelrelle wanted to do something in private without the other party members knowing. I always welcome these activities. I love D&D so I made the time to give them the opportunity. I had informed Amelrelle that there was someone in Greenest that she should be seeking out, but it had never come up. I wanted to provide a secondary option for this. During their trip through the old tunnel, they happened upon a body with a note. The note was a cryptic letter that described a location and had a familiar symbol. Amelrelle took the note and held onto a ring that accompanied it. The ring was not magical.



Now, the time had come for Amelrelle to seek out the contact that she had in Greenest. She had found a note with the symbol for the Shades of Penumbra on it. This is an organization that Amaranth, Amelrelle, and I came up with to support the background of the characters. I also tied the organization into the overall campaign which was rather simple because of the role of organizations in the Hoard of the Dragon Queen and the Rise of Tiamat. For this, Amelrelle knew that she had a contact in Greenest that she was supposed to look for. The note had a cryptic message on it, but I realized when I was writing it that it probably wouldn’t mean anything to the players. The players are dependent on the information that you give them. In this case, they had no idea what was in the town. Thus, I gave them a very obvious clue that should stand out: “Sign of the Raven”. I had already decided on this before Amaranth gave most of his money away to a murder of ravens, so it was a comedic happenstance that I was delighted by.



As the party was gathering supplies, Amaranth wanted to go look for a healer’s kit. They came across a storefront called “The Naughty Rook”, which looked like a general store. When the party had gone in before, they looked around at the odd supplies. There was a gardening claw that had been bent and deformed. There was a jacks game whose articles had been sharpened. These were not the things that they expected to find. But, Amelrelle, perceptive as always, managed to piece together that this store supplied tools to a specific sort of individual who might find a use for it. While she was looking, she found a mark for the shades that she wanted to remember.



So now, Amelrelle and Amaranth are sneaking out of the Chirping Griffon in the dead of the night trying to return to the Naughty Rook. They rolled poor stealth and made their way to the locked door. Amelrelle conveniently picked the lock and made their way in. As they inspected the room, they rolled really well and found a secret doorway. As they entered the doorway, there was a room was a treasure chest, a stairway on the far wall, and numerous weapons and armor that made the room appear as sort of a training room. Amelrelle the rogue didn’t even glance at the treasure chest and decided to go down the stairs. As she approached, she heard voices.



The voices were unfamiliar. They were discussing why nobody had shown up yet. Why hasn’t anybody responded to their letters? When Amelrelle descended down the stairs, she failed a stealth check and the conversation abruptly halted. She was quickly confronted by a Leonin and a human. After a brief discussion about their history together, they gave Amelrelle some of the information that they had.



Here’s probably one of the earliest mistakes that I made. I had Hulh, the Leonin, tell Amelrelle to use the sign of a Wisteria Wreath. This is because Amelrelle’s alter ego is named Wisteria. I did this because of an internal struggle within the Shades of Penumbra. I thought, at the time, that this would be best served by two different banners. I would later regret this as a plot element, but what’s done is done. We all make decisions that seem logical at the time and make stories more convoluted than they need to be.



The reason I felt this was a mistake is that it distracted from the fact that the banner could have served as an opportunity for the players to have a discussion about what they found. Instead, now they can determine good or bad from the sign that is displayed. Plus, why would Hulh, who seems to be confused by everything going on, know about the wisteria wreath? It was a stupid mistake.



Norman, the human, discovered that his wife had been killed in the old tunnel (he had not heard from her for some time) and Amelrelle returned the wedding band. He decided to head North, looking for Albrecht for more information. The group wondered why it had been so strange that the Shades of Penumbra (the group to which Amaranth and Amelrelle belong) would have so easily been torn apart. Albrecht would know what to do, if he’s still alive.



Amelrelle and Amaranth snuck back to the Chirping Griffon and retired for the evening. This would end the private session. I worked hard to scatter the clues for Amelrelle’s story. Because they are a secretive organization, they are hidden everywhere and trying to blend in. The story will end up tying into the Hoard of the Dragon Queen very easily, but it requires careful planning of breadcrumbs and plot forks that provide opportunities for red herrings and gold nuggets.



<!--EndFragment-->